---
layout: single
title: "Smort"
date: 2023-07-10 00:01:01 -04:00
author_profile: true
header: 
  image: assets/images/maineMountain.jpg
  teaser: assets/images/teasers/maineMountain.jpg
  caption: "Photo credit: Me" 
toc: true
toc_sticky: true
categories: [Friends, Travel]
---

"There are two reasons a person feels the desire to teach something: either to pass on successes or pass on failures." — Koro Sensei 

## Clueless
About a week ago, I met a friend of a friend who seemed to really hate me based on most of our interactions.

However, it turns out that she actually liked me instead, which was shocking. It reminded me of *Knives Out: Glass Onion*, since all of our interactions made sense initially from either perspective, but it also reminded me of how clueless and stupid I am because I should have realized something was weird when I was confused at half of the things she said. 

It also reminded me of the video "Casually Explained: Is She Into You?" because I was literally living in a more extreme version of this satire. 

{% include video id="xa-4IAR_9Yw" provider="youtube" %}

After a few days of texting each other for hours, I thought that her opinion of me was slowly recovering.

### Friends know best
I told my good friend Y from Shanghai about this incident and went through all of the details (which will not be provided in this post). 

In a heated exchange he remarked, "BRO SHE'S SPOONFEEDING THESE TO YOU / AND YOU'RE JUST CLUELESS AF" (he is right).

Even though he was a bit mean in the delivery, I think that it's important for friends to give their honest opinion instead of being kind for the sake of not hurting any feelings. 

At the end of the day though, I think it's a funny story that I can tell my future students (although it's really embarrassing).

## Maine thunder, strikin thunder, big thunder
I went to Maine's Acadia National Park for a three-day trip with my family to hike and eat lobster.

In this section, I just want to give some tips for those who plan to visit. 

### Sights
Wear sunscreen (I got sunburned to a perfect anime blush).

If you want to go on a sight-seeing boat tour, then I recommend sitting on the right side on the roof for the best view of the landmarks and animals. Bring binoculars to see the seals. 

Beehive Trail is extremely challenging, so make sure that the ground isn't slippery on that day and that you are wearing hiking clothes. Alternatively, just don't go there and go up the Bowl Trail. 

Otter Cove and Cliff do not have otters. You will also have a hard time finding any beavers unless you go far into the woods. 

It will be foggy a lot of the time at the top of mountains (and everywhere in general), so make sure to go at a time that there is less fog. 

Sand Bar land bridge is extremely pretty and you can walk on it and skip rocks there at low tide (do not drive onto the sand). 

### Foods
Order blueberry or lobster ice cream from the ice cream place. However, note that lobster ice cream is just vanilla with some lobster bits inside it (still amazing though). 

Geddy's, Side Street Cafe, Stewman's are all great restaurants, but you need to go a bit away from bar harbor to get a typical whole steamed lobster. 

Always order seafood even though it is all overpriced, I mean, market price. 

Blueberry soda is very cheap at the local supermarket compared to the restaurants, and I would buy it in six-packs. Also, don't buy ginger beer because it tastes like ginger. 

### TLDR
Overall, it's the type of place that doesn't have much to offer, and I would only want to come back with future family. 