---
layout: single
title: "Her Year"
date: 2023-12-31 00:00:01 -05:00
author_profile: true
header: 
  image: assets/images/bison.jpg
  teaser: assets/images/teasers/angello-pro.jpg
  caption: "Photo credit: Angello Pro" 
toc: true
toc_sticky: true
tags: [Taylor Swift]
categories: [Music]
---

"I want your midnights." — Taylor Swift, "New Year's Day"

## Your Spotify Wrapped
This musical year is ending tonight so I thought I would write about 

## Her Year
The greatest highlight of this year is definitely Taylor Swift.

Someone introduced her to me this summer and it turned out to be one of the best experiences I've had. 

On Christmas Day, I went ice skating with my sister, so we listened to Taylor Swift on the train. There were a lot of good songs from *folklore* and *evermore* in the shuffle, which I did not expect because I never really got why she liked those albums.

I get it now. 

### Choochoo
I wrote down the songs I liked the most from that shuffle in my Notes app.

{% include spotifySong.html id="7F5oktn5YOsR9eR5YsFtqb" %}

is first, and is very fitting for tomorrow. 

It's pretty hard to play on the old guitar at my house because the strings are tougher to press for some reason. Also, the ring finger has to press pretty hard. 

{% include spotifySong.html id="3UMrglJeju5yWyYIW6o99b" %}

I've actually heard it before, but the lyrics didn't resonate at that time. I think that's what non-fans don't really understand about TS, some of the songs become more relatable over time. 

{% include spotifySong.html id="5kI4eCXXzyuIUXjQra0Cxi" %}

My old AP CSA teacher, Mr. S, who also learned about TS this year, praised *evermore* and *folklore* for their lyrics, but this song's lyrics are a bit too good.

{% include spotifySong.html id="73YUReisjb3A9ActdLLjJQ" %}

I only started listening to song lyrics in the final 1/3 of the year, but this song makes me wish I didn't. 

### Top Songs
So, here are my all-time top five TS songs:

1. "Better Than Revenge" (Original)
2. "I Can See You"
3. "The Story of Us"
4. "Speak Now"
5. "Enchanted"

Surprise, it's all *Speak Now*!

As a *Speak Now* fan, I love almost all of the songs on the album. However, I must admit there are also good songs on other albums. So, here is a top ten excluding it:

1. "I Think He Knows" from *Lover*
2. "The Very First Night" from *Red*
3. "How You Get The Girl" from *1989*
4. "Cruel Summer" from *Lover*
5. "Message In A Bottle" from *Red*
6. "Paper Rings" from *Lover*
7. "Getaway Car" from *Fearless*
8. "All You Had To Do Was Stay" from *1989*
9. "Love Story" from *Fearless*
10. "ivy" from *evermore*

If you know all of these, you might be able to tell that I like exciting, upbeat songs. *evermore* makes a surprise appearance just because "ivy" is so good. 

Honorable mention to "Don't Blame Me" because it's a banger, but it sounds too much like "Take Me to Church" by Hozier. Also, "Mr. Perfectly Fine" is really catchy, but the lyrics aren't great. I didn't really want to include the megahits, which there are a lot of, but "Love Story" is probably the best out of those; "Cruel Summer" gets a special exemption. 